To transition your project to a completely local setup, you need to configure LM Studio so it acts as the engine for your FastAPI backend.

Here are the step-by-step instructions to download the model, run the local server, and connect your code.

Step 1: Download and Install LM Studio
Go to the official LM Studio website and download the installer for your operating system (Windows, Mac, or Linux).

Install and launch the application.

Step 2: Download the Llama 3.2 Model
Click the Search (Magnifying Glass) icon on the left sidebar.

In the search bar at the top, type: Llama 3.2 3B Instruct.

You will see a list of results. Look for the official repository or high-quality community quantizations (such as those by LM Studio or Bartowski).

Click Download next to a Q4_K_M or Q8_0 variant.

Note: Q4_K_M is the optimal balance of processing speed and intelligence for most consumer laptops and desktops.

Step 3: Start the Local API Server
Click the Developer / Local Server icon on the left sidebar (it looks like a double-headed arrow or a radar chip).

At the top of the screen, click the dropdown menu that says "Select a model to load" and choose the Llama 3.2 3B Instruct model you just downloaded. Wait a few moments for it to load into your system's memory (RAM/VRAM).

In the right-hand settings panel, ensure the Port is set to 1234.

Turn on the Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) toggle if it is visible.

Click the green Start Server button.

Keep LM Studio running in the background. It is now serving an OpenAI-compatible API endpoint at http://localhost:1234/v1.

Step 4: Run Your FastAPI Backend
With LM Studio hosting the model, you can now boot up your local Python application.

Open your terminal or command prompt in your project folder.

If you haven't done so already, regenerate your offline vector database using your local embeddings:

Bash
python ingest.py
Start your FastAPI server using Uvicorn:

Bash
uvicorn api:app --reload
Your terminal will output that the server is running locally at http://127.0.0.1:8000.

How the System Flows Together
[Mobile App / Frontend] 
       │  (Sends message JSON)
       ▼
[FastAPI Server (api.py)] ──(Searches Local FAISS Index)──► [Extracted PDF Chunks]
       │
       │  (Sends Prompt + PDF Chunks via localhost:1234)
       ▼
[LM Studio Server (Llama 3.2)] ──(Generates Local Response)──► Back to FastAPI ──► Back to App
Your setup is now completely self-contained. The backend script will capture requests, read your local FAISS vector store, pass the data directly into LM Studio, and return structured responses instantly.

Are you planning to test this API directly from your computer first using an API client like Postman, or do you want to jump straight into connecting a mobile device over your local Wi-Fi network?